# Visualization of Poem

This is the semester-long coursework for [Emory CS 441](https://emilywall.github.io/vis/) with Dr. Emily Wall. 

## Milestone 2 - Curate Data
For the poem, I decided to use multiple datasets to visualize the entire poem. 
In total, I will be using 5 datasets, which covers all the topics mentioned in my poem, respectively are: 1) GDI (gender development index) 2) gender wage gap 3) women unpaid work 4) domestic violence and 5) abortion and women health. The datasets are all in tabular forms and in the csv format after cleaning. The cleaning procedure including removing rows with missing values. By manually examing the datasets and with the python <pre>describe()</pre> function, I believe that the datasets do not contain any errors. 

The [first dataset](/clean_datasets/gdi_year_schooling.csv) on GDI by country is from [UNDP, human development reports](https://hdr.undp.org/gender-development-index#/indicies/GDI) in 2021. This dataset is relevant to the first two lines in the first santa of the poem, where it mentiones GDI (gender development index) and differences in year of schooling by sex. Specifically, this datasets include 172 countries (thus 172 rows) and 6 features, respectively are: country, GDI, expected years of schooling for males and females, and mean years of schooling for males and females. GDI is defined by the ratio of female to male HDI values. This dataset is cleaned by removing any countries with missing values and select the 6 features that I want to use and is relevant to the poem. I want to use this dataset to show how women are disadvantaged in education and development, and use the GDI index to sort the countries. 

The [second dataset](/clean_datasets/gender-pay-gap-US-2014.csv) on gender pay gap is from [US Census Bureau](https://www.census.gov/) in 2014. This dataset is also relevant to the last two lines of first santa of the poem describing the gender wage gap across different positions and industries. This dataset has 80 rows and 6 features, respectively are: Occupation, Category (industry), Women average annual salary, Men average annual salary, Pay gap, and Pay gap as a percentage. I do not have to clean the dataset further because I need to use all the features and there are no missing values. I want to use this dataset to demostrate that the existence of gender pay gap and its severity. 

The [third dataset](/clean_datasets/unpaid_work.csv) on unpaid work across the world is from [OECD.Stat](https://stats.oecd.org/index.aspx?queryid=54757) in 2021 for women in the 15-64 age group. This dataset is relevant to the first two lines in the second santa of the poem, where it is describing the unpaid work women worked in the households. The dataset contains 34 countries with the 7 features: Country, "Time spent in paid work, by sex_MEN", "Time spent in paid work, by sex_WOMEN", "Time spent in total work, by sex_MEN", "Time spent in total work, by sex_WOMEN", "Time spent in unpaid work, by sex_MEN", and "Time spent in unpaid work, by sex_WOMEN". The unit of the time is minutes per day. The dataset was in a long format and I have changed it to a wide format. I also only selected the features I mentioned in the poem from the large dataset. I want to use this dataset to demostrate how women are exceptionally burdened by unpaid work.

The [fourth dataset](/clean_datasets/domestic_violence.csv) is from [The World Bank, Gender Data Portal](https://genderdata.worldbank.org/data-stories/overview-of-gender-based-violence/) on domestic violence in 2018. The dataset describes the percentage of women (15-49) experiencing domestic violence across the world. In total, it has 164 rows (countries) and the given 3 features: Country Name, Country Code, and Value. The value is the percentage of women experiencing domestic violence. I want to use this dataset to demostrate the prevalence of domestic violence across the world, and how it is a global issue. I also want to highlight the percentage number to demostrate the severity of the issue.

The [fifth dataset](/clean_datasets/abortion_and_health.csv) is from [Guttmacher Institue](https://data.guttmacher.org/regions) on abortion and women's health in 2019. 